- When evaluating the impact of things you need to be really careful about your own cognitive biases. Sometimes the less impactful things “feel better” and more impactful things “feel bad”. As an extreme example, imagine you worked at a company that killed off random people and used them to transplant organs and save other people lives. The next effect is that they would kill 1 person a day and save 10. Compare this to a company that developed a medical treatment that saved 1 person a day. I think when explaining your job to someone else, explaining that you develop a medical treatments probably feels a lot better. But depending on your moral framework it may or may not be. Your “moral intuitions” are likely extremely inconsistent and not a good way to make judgements. There’s a famous harvard lecture that goes into this too: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBdfcR-8hEY](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBdfcR-8hEY).
    - One example — there are a lot of big companies that have projects or varying social value. For example, if you’re at Meta, working on facebook has no value, while I’d say working on pytorch has had value up till now (not sure about the future). Even if a company is overall net negative on society that doesn’t mean working at it is bad, you need to consider what your contribution is / the counterfactual version of the company where you don’t work at it. The same goes for working on something that doesn’t really help anyone at a company that does a lot of good things. Making a philanthropy’s website look slightly nicer is not that much better than working on making a DoD website look slightly nicer, both are pretty useless. Trying to shape a company to work on more positive things can be extremely valuable. But I think people are cogitively biased to reduce their work to “I help X company with its overarching goals” when the exact nature of your work is far more nuanced than that.
- Assume companies are efficient — they will hire the best people for the job. “Oh, in the counterfactual world where I work somewhere else, someone else could take my job and do it just as well“ — this might actually be true sometimes, because in reality, companies can’t be optimally efficient in every case, but in aggregate they are, so don’t worry about this too much. Also pretty likely that in the counterfactual world there is just one less person working on X, so progress on X is slower.
- It’s ok to optimize for your own growth / learning / seek diverse and new experiences while you are still forming strong convictions about how you want to spend your life. If you’re in college, you have 4 decades of work ahead of you. It can be really easy to get caught up in the culture of moving fast, dropping out the moment you have enough skill to do so, choosing money over opportunities for exploration and development. But it really is better to waste a few years thinking carefully about how you want to spend the next four decades than it is to hyperoptimize the next internship / your first job. Your first job isn’t the end-all-be-all or your career (unless you let it be, which is a prevalent default behavior). However, it is not ok to unintentionally experience value drift in the process on exploring.
    - Even if I believed that AI is going to change society very rapidly in the next few years, much more than afterwards (which I’m not convinced is true), I would still think the vast majority of my personal impact on the world will not be from the work that I do in the next few years but the time after it.
    - There is a lot of research showing that diverse perspectives are really crucial for having new and deep insights into “wicked problems” in society. The general idea is that a lot of problems span a lot of areas of society and so it helps more to have breadth of knowledge and be able to make interdisciplinary connections than to be a subject matter expert. I guess what I’m trying to say is, sometimes society might incentivize you to pick one thing and get really good at it, but you’ll only actually figure out what you want to by exploring and learning about things vastly different from what you’ve done in the past.
- [](https://awestover.github.io/thoughts/goodness\(universe\))[https://awestover.github.io/thoughts/goodness(universe)](https://awestover.github.io/thoughts/goodness\(universe\))
    - Solely optimizing for happiness in the universe is not exactly what I want. I’m uncomfortable with advocating for “everyone is hooked up to a machine which simulates the deepest forms of happiness and fulfillment neurochemically.” This is why just solving disease (extending the duration of conscious experience) / making QoL improvements (improving the quality of conscious experience) doesn’t feel like the only thing that matters. I think the fact that humans are collectively on a search for of _real_ answers to important problems, also matters. That there are things we didn’t know and that we _actually_ understand about the world now. Understanding how quantum tunneling works isn’t just valuable because we also randomly happened to figured out how to make computers with it, it’s also cool because it gave me the opportunity to learn about how it works in high school and increase my understanding of the world. Perhaps there are better ways of answering the deepest questions like what is the meaning of life. This is all to say, I think _knowledge about fundamental aspects of the world_ does have intrinsic value to me, and I am not solely concerned with social value.
    - Every sort of new technology causes some form of job displacement (industrial revolution, self-driving, etc). The faster it comes, the more disruptive it is. Arguably, in the end, there is an overall improvement in productivity and QoL.
        - I think technology is overall usually net good even after transition periods of net negative, and I think there is value to being the world that understands how the technology works over the world that didn’t understand how the technology works, makes me pretty tolerant to most technological innovations.

### Trading firms
- generally very sketchy.
- These increase wealth inequality by playing a zero-sum game. All of the money that trading firms earn goes into the hands of these random software engineers / researchers who really don’t need all that money and generally do pretty indulgent things with it.
    - There is the net effect of the trading firm as a whole (which is quite negative), and the net effect of you being at the trading firm. What if you funnel it into philanthropy? (EA / earning to give)
        - Pretty uncomfortable with the idea of taking money from people when you don’t know who are are taking it from. Buy maybe you can make some sort of heuristic argument that maybe the average person you’re taking money from is better off than the average person you’re giving the money to. Actually I think this is true. Especially if you think very carefully about philanthropic investments, the potential impact can be pretty positive.
        - You need to compare the fraction of the money you earn that you’re actually getting payed to the fraction that is going into the hands of the firm / other people at the firm. Very likely that you make a few million and only get like 25%, and the 75% bad outweighs any good you did.
- “market making provides liquidity”
    - I might also just be generally uninformed by what this argument is actually saying, but when someone explained it to me I didn’t agree.
- Exchanges (not trading firms) are valuable. They provide measures to reduce risk (hedging) and essential functions of capitalism, which is good assuming you think capitalism is good. “The money you lose on exchanges is the fee for the services it provides” seems reasonable to me.